MARS MR97310 STILLCAM DRIVER
Theodore Kilgore <kilgota@auburn.edu> April, 2004.

(Driver is LGPL like most of the rest of libgphoto2; see any of the 
source files for a more complete statement of the license.)

INTRODUCTION

This driver is for a camera which uses the Mars MR97310 chip. I understand 
that there are several of these. Mine is an Aiptek PenCam VGA+ (Vendor:Product
ID 0x08ca:0x0111). The interface is proprietary, and these cameras are 
supported commercially only in Windows.

FEATURES OF THE CAMERA

The Aiptek PenCam VGA+ is a "budget" camera. The camera has resolution settings 
of 640x480 and 320x240. The default behavior of the manufacturer's camera 
driver is to save photos in JPEG format, with BMP format optional. However, 
the raw data is in Bayer array format. Here, everything is saved in PPM format. 
The camera can also be used as a webcam (unsupported here) or to make a "video 
clip." This driver supports the 640x480 and 320x240 *uncompressed* stillcam 
and "clip" modes only. Clips download nicely as a succession of PPM files. 
There is an optional 3X compression mode, proprietary and not obvious. 
The adventurous and persistent are hereby encouraged to play with it. 

The outside of the package advertises "Interpolated XGA (1024x768) Resolution" 
(which can be turned on or off). If "enhancement" is turned on, the appearance 
of the photos does change, but not much to the better. The photos are only 
slightly sharper but become much more blocky with jagged lines and curves.  
It seems  not worth the trouble. If you find that the "enhancement" does 
something nice, please let me know. Especially if you can understand how to 
get "Interpolated 1024x768 Resolution" from 640x480 bytes downloaded from a 
640x480 Bayer array.  

The camera uses a configuration "block," as do the sq905 cameras. However, 
here the information can be used to run options such as gphoto2 -p 3 and 
gphoto2 -p 3-5. Whether this flexibility is of any practical effect or not 
is another question, since apparently the camera will not download thumbnails. 
The driver provided with the camera is for Windows only, and that driver does 
not take full advantage even of the mentioned abilities. There, one has the 
choice either to download all photos, or none. If all are downloaded, then 
thumbnails are created. The user can then do previews and decide what to save. 


FURTHER DETAILS

Further details are given in "protocol.txt". These details have been obtained 
through trial and error and are intended solely to meet the problems of 
compatibility in other than a Microsoft Windows (trademark) environment. 

WARRANTY?

Absolutely none. Remember, I did not sell you this software. I have written 
this driver for my own edification and in the sincere hope that it might help 
you to use of your camera. Please see also the warranty clauses 
in the LGPL license. 